So now that we know how to work with array lists and list views we're going to put that knowledge together
with what we learnt about sequels in the previous section to create a times table app.
So the idea here is that if you've got a young child who is learning their times tables then you could
give them this app or use it yourself to generate the first 20 times tables to display those to the
user.
So I'm going to show you what we're going to make and this is it.
We're going to have a slide along the top or seek bar along the top and then when you up to date they
seek bar by dragging it back and forth.
You get the appropriate times table and notice we're not particularly interested in a zero time table
so I've stopped it going there.
And it minimizes out at the first times table.
So that's what we're creating.
I definitely think you have all the skills to make this yourself so do your absolute best to do that.
I wish you the best of luck.
Go for.
All right.
Well I'm going to start Of course by creating a new project.
I'll call it times tables.
And all the folds and I'm going to create the slides first and then the list view so that it nicely
appears underneath the slider.
So let's get rid of Helliwell text view.
And then bring in our seat about
here we go.
So I'm going to make it the same with as the parent.
So that should stretch it out to the full width.
Fantastic.
And then all I'm going to do is change the ID and because this sick bar is going to keep track of which
times table we're on.
I'm going to call it times table seek about
quite tricky to see all of that.
I'll just try that again.
Times table see Bob every day.
I just want to capitalize the s.
All right.
And while we're here we're at the list view as well.
So just underneath the seat bar there we go.
And by default it's going to stretch out nicely.
So once again I'll just change the ID to times table list few smushing.
So let's deal with our seek first and make that interactive
and then we'll work with the list you.
Say let's find it first off.
So seek to import that
times table seek.
And we're going to want to cast it to a sick bar and we'll get it using find view by id resources dot
ID dot times table seatback.
And while we're here I think I'll create the this view as well.
Kind of makes sense to put the two together.
So this is going to be a list the fine view by ID.
We should be pretty good at this by now.
Times table list.
All right.
Now I want my times tables to go from 1 to 20.
So let's take our time table seek ball and set the max to 20.
Great.
Unfortunately there's no set to mean method to set the minimum So we're going to have to add some code
in manually in our own progress changed method to put in our minimum.
I would like to set an initial value so that we can do very easily using times table seek bar set progress.
Remember progress is what we use to refer to the value of the seat.
So if you think of it as a progress bar going from left to right that makes a bit more sense.
So we're going to start in the middle with the progress value of 10.
Now we'll set our methods.
So times table seek bar don't set on Seek bar change listener.
So remember this sets up a listener which will call the methods within.
Whenever the Sikh is updated by the user or indeed by our app as well.
So we are going to want a new on Seek kabar change Lisner gives us all that lovely code.
We're going to ignore the on start tracking touch and stop tracking touch methods because we don't need
to do anything there.
We only need to do something when the progress is actually changed.
And this is why we're going to add in my code to set the minimum.
I'm going to do this in a more general way so that you can use
this code whenever you want to have a minimum value in your belt.
So we're going to have a minimum of one and then we're just going to check if
progress is less than 1.
Then we want to actually essentially use a progress of one.
So what I'm going to do is bring in a another variable called times
table
which is not going to have a value initially but if progress is less than sorry by one I mean the minimum
to make it more general.
So if progress is less than the minimum we can at times table equal to the minimum otherwise we can
set times table equal to progress so hopefully that makes sense.
We've got a minimum here that we could change to any value and we've got a times table which is going
to be the name of the times table that we're going to use.
And then if they progress turns out to be less than the minimum then we're going to set times table
equity a.m. so you can use that whenever you want a certain minimum value to be used within your seat.
So for now we'll just log
the seek by valley
import that
and remember we're going to log.
Times table.
And we do that using integer to string and then times table
that we get.
So we're running the app now I think if we've done everything right we should see that the progress
is in the middle of the sequel and initially has a value of 10 and then we drank when we drag it up
and down.
We'll see in the logs that the value
goes all the way up to 20 but only down to 1.
Yep.
So values nicely in the middle.
And then as I drag it up 11 12 13 14 15 16 to 20 and then drag it all the way down and it stops at 1
fantastic.
One small thing that you might be thinking that you don't actually want the seat bar to go all the way
down to zero when your value is one that's fairly easy to fix.
We just update the sick bar when the user tries to drag it down and set it back to 1.
So we can do that using time saved will seek Bob does set progress again to the minimum.
So let's just have a quick look and make sure that that works in the way that we wanted to use it should
now not be able to drag it all the way to the left
you'll be gay.
So I'm dragging dragging dragging and there you go.
I can't drag it anymore.
To the left.
So now we've got our Sipah up and running.
Let's get our
list view in place.
We need one of them.
Down here so let's start with a time table family of 10 which we're going to see because I seek power
initially on 10 so it's going to be confusing if we start with anything else.
So I have a timetable value of 10.
So now to create our times table we're going to create it of course as an array list.
And I want an array list of strings even though they're going to be numbers because I'm going to be
displaying them on the table.
So we're going to convert each of our into just strings before we put it in the array.
I'll call it times table content.
And it is a new array list of strings
that we get.
Now we need to add the content to our list and I'm going to do that using a for loop could use any kind
of leap really but I think four makes the most sense here.
So we'll start by creating our accounts of variable i which is going to have an initial value of 1.
We're going to keep going as long as I is less than or equal to 10.
If you want to display a longer times table you can of course change that to 20 or something.
But I'll leave it as 10 for now and then each time we want to increment by one which we do by I plus
plus.
All right now we've got our follow up.
So all we have to do in each round of this loop is to add an item to times table content.
So times table content don't add and then we want to had I times times table.
So that will give us the number that we want.
So when I goes from 1 to 3 then in this case we'll get 1 times 10 two times 10 three times 10 etc. which
will give us the 10 times table if we change that to 9 then we would get 1 times 9 2 times 9 is such
a way to give us the nine times table.
So that's all good but this is going to be an integer.
So we need to convert it to a string using integer Daut to string.
And then the thing that we want to convert to a string is by Times time table.
So this will give us the times table in the format that we want which is a string.
So all that remains is to add this content to our list view which we of course do with an array adapter.
You're going to create an array adapter of strings and we'll call it array adapter.
And this is going to be a new array adapter of strings for the context of this type of Android.
Dot dot lay out a simple list item one.
And then we're going to get it from times table content
and then all we need to do is apply that to our list view which if you remember was times table list
view.
So we'll set the adapter to be array adapter so let's just check that that works.
We should now have what we do have a slide of the works and returns the correct value.
We should have a table that shows the first 10 items in the 10 times table.
Of course our final change will then be to actually update the table when the slider is moved.
If we get say fantastic so our slides are looking good at times table is looking good.
We can of course scroll that up and down and out slide out still hopefully returns values to the logs
when we move it.
Just take a look.
There they are.
So now we just need to update the times table when we move the slide up.
So one option there would be to copy and paste the code for our times table produce production to where
they seek par value is updated and that would be fine that would work but we don't really like duplicating
code because then we have to update it twice etc. and it just looks a bit messier than it has to be.
So instead of that I'm going to cut that code and then create a method
say public FOID because it's returning nothing.
I'll call it generate.
Times table.
And it's going to need an integer
which will be the times table.
That's actually being generated
them we can paste that code in.
And now we don't need to
create that each time because it's going to be passed to the method by the script that calls that method.
And that's a very good point here.
So times table list view we can access that in a method up here because it's created in our own create
method.
So that's simple enough.
We just need to create it outside here in the class
and then
it will just set its value in the create method.
OK so now we just need to call that method down here.
So I generate times table with the times table of 10 and then here instead of logging
the value of the seek part we want to of course generate the times table and the times table that we
want to generate Is times table which is essentially the value of the sequel.
As long as it's one or more all right.
So fingers crossed the app should now work exactly as we wanted to.
So when we move the slider Well the seek bar back and forth should update the contents of the table
with the appropriate times table.
Fantastic.
So if you've got a kid who's needing to learn that times tables this app might work very well both for
you and for them.
I hope you enjoy that as now go on and move away from list views and onto timer's.